
PART III — COUNTRY PROFILeS

A number of schools in Al Sareif Beni Hussein locality
in North Darfur were reportedly damaged or destroyed
by looting and arson during fighting between the Beni
Hussein and Abbala tribes in the first half of the
year.1522
Media sources reported that at least one secondary
school student was shot dead and another 10 or more
injured as police armed with tear gas and live
ammunition attempted to disperse protesters demonstrating over the increased cost of requirements for
sitting for the Sudan Secondary School Leaving
Certificate.1523 Another student was killed and four
more were injured outside a National Service centre
while waiting to obtain a seal required for their
university applications when a soldier fired live
ammunition after students had reportedly become
impatient over delays and perceived corruption.1524
Arrests and injury of university students by security
forces continued in 2013. By the end of September, at
least 11 university students had been injured1525 and
another 65 arrested.1526
In one incident in May, nine students sustained
injuries after being shot on the main campus of El
Fasher University, North Darfur. The students had
reportedly been attending a meeting when an
estimated 70 armed student militia members entered
the campus, trying to garner support for a government
‘mobilization’ campaign against armed opposition
groups. When the students failed to react, clashes
broke out and the militia group began firing into the
air, wounding one student. As students attempted to
flee, they were met at the campus gate by police and
NISS forces who began firing live ammunition into the
crowd, wounding eight more.1527
In September, some 22 Darfuri students were arrested
and several injured after security forces stormed the
campus of the University of Peace in Babanusa, West
Kordofan, to break up a sit-in protesting against a
university policy requiring Darfuri students to pay
tuition fees, despite a political agreement1528
exempting them from doing so. The police reportedly
used live ammunition, tear gas, batons and air rifles
against protesters.1529 The university subsequently
banned 30 Darfuri students from the university for a
period ranging from one to two years.1530

